---
title: 'CS 6804 2024 Spring'
date:   2024-1-16 9am - 12pm
permalink: /2024-1-16-seminar
tags:
  - cs 6804
  - spring
  - 2024
---

# CS 6804: Trustworthiness of Large Language Models

<span style="color:red">Note: This page will not be updated after January 15, 2024. The most up-to-date course syllabus and materials can be found on [Canvas](https://canvas.vt.edu/courses/185650).</span>

**Time and Location**: Monday and Wednesday, 5:30 PM - 6:45 PM. DDS 180.

**Instructor**: Xuan Wang
- Office: Data and Decision Sciences 376
- Phone: (540) 231-4061
- Email: xuanw [at] vt [dot] edu
- Office Hours: Monday 4:00 PM - 5:00 PM (by appointment)


## Course Description
Large Language Models (LLMs) and applications powered by them have recently received tremendous attention, especially since ChatGPT was released in November 2022. This course will provide an introduction to state-of-the-art methods and tools aimed at bolstering the **trustworthiness of LLMs**, spanning both their theoretical underpinnings and practical implementations. This course begins with an introduction to LLMs and a retrieval-augmented generation question-answering application. Various LLM trustworthiness metrics will be discussed in detail, encompassing diverse topics including relevance, groundedness, confidence, calibration, uncertainty, explainability, privacy, fairness, toxicity, and adversarial attacks. Applications in critical domains, such as healthcare, education, and security, will also be covered. Finally, students will work on a course project focusing on open research questions in trustworthy LLMs. The course materials are adapted from [Stanford CS 329T: Trustworthy Machine Learning - Large Language Models and Applications](https://web.stanford.edu/class/cs329t/).

## Prerequisites
Students should have experience with machine learning, data analytics, and deep learning. Strong programming skills in a high-level language such as Python, as well as frameworks for rapid deep learning prototyping, e.g., PyTorch, Tensorflow, Keras, etc., are essential for implementing and experimenting with the concepts covered in this course. While not mandatory, familiarity with natural language processing would be advantageous.

## Course Format
The course is a [role-playing paper reading seminar](https://colinraffel.com/blog/role-playing-seminar.html) that is structured around reading, presenting, and discussing weekly papers. Each class will involve the presentation and discussion of one paper. Each student will have a unique, rotating role per week. This role defines the lens through which each student reads the paper and determines what they prepare for the group in-class discussion. All students, irrespective of their role, are expected to have read the paper before each class and come to class ready to discuss. There will be no exams or traditional assignments. Instead, students will work on a course project focusing on open research questions in trustworthy LLMs.

**Presentation Roles**: This seminar is organized around the different “roles” students play each week, that define the lens through which students read the paper. Students will be divided into two groups, one group presenting on Tuesdays and the other on Thursdays. In a given class session, students in the presenting groups will each be given a rotating role (described below): Presenter, Reviewer, Archaeologist, Academic Researcher, Industry Expert, and Host. Presenting groups should create a formal presentation, i.e., have slides prepared for the group in-class discussion. For each student in a presenting group, their assigned role determines what they should include in the slides.

Depending on changes in course enrollment, the roles might change, for example, remove roles or make roles optional in case enrollment decreases or allow more students for each role in the event of enrollment increase.

- **Presenter** (1-2 students): Create the main presentation for around 30 min, describing the motivation, problem definition, method, and experimental findings of this paper. Each student should serve as the presenter at least once.

- **Reviewer** (1-5 students): Complete a full—critical but not necessarily negative—review of the paper. Follow the guidelines for [NeurIPS reviewers](https://nips.cc/Conferences/2020/PaperInformation/ReviewerGuidelines) (under “Review Content”). Please answer questions 1-6 under “Review Content”, and assign an Overall score (question 9) and a Confidence score (question 10). Skip the rest of the review, including writing a summary. Note that you can bypass questions by filling N/A. For example, you really liked the paper and can’t think of any disadvantages. Therefore you can skip the respective question (but use this skip option sparingly). Also, please note that this role does not require going over related work, and is not an exhaustive list of all arguments you can think of. The goal is to enhance your overall critical thinking. The instructor reserves the right to contact students who overuse the N/A option.

- **Archaeologist** (1-5 students): Determine where this paper sits in the context of previous and subsequent work. Find and report on one older paper that has substantially influenced the current paper and one newer paper citing this current paper. Create 3-5 slides for each paper, summarizing the key points such as the research problem, methodology innovation, and main results.

- **Researcher** (1-3 students): Propose an imaginary follow-up project that has now become possible due to the existence and success of the current paper.

- **Industry Expert** (1-3 students): Propose a new application or company product for the method in the paper (not already discussed in class), and discuss at least one positive and negative impact of this application. Convince your industry boss that it’s worth investing time and money to implement this paper. Your arguments should be particularly applicable to the chosen industry market.

- **Host** (1-2 students): Host the whole discussion in class, including introducing presenters and answering all the questions proposed by the non-presentating group on Piazza.

**Non-presenter Assignment**: 
- If you are not in the presenting group during a class session, please submit the day before class (due 11:59pm EST) at least one question on Piazza non-anonymously. The questions can be about either paper (e.g., something you’re confused about) or something you’d like to hear discussed more. Questions that open debates and make in-class discussions explore different viewpoints are a plus. 

- After class and before the end of the day 11:59pm EST, provide constructive feedback to the presenting group on Piazza non-anonymously. You may focus on one or more reading roles, or the presentation holistically. Evaluate the clarity of the presentation, the strength of the arguments, and the quality of visuals, if any. Highlighting strengths and areas for improvement. This feedback will be shared post each presentation.

**Everyone, every week** (Optional): After each class session, you may post your thoughts on Piazza. For example, which parts did you enjoy reading, what results and insights you found interesting, a missing result the paper could have included, any useful additional links and resources, etc. Whenever you agree with the comments of a student’s post, make sure to endorse their answer. You can also post a reply with your additional thoughts.

**Final Project**: The main project goal is to engage students in research on trustworthy LLMs. In particular, students should try to extend papers from topics covered in class and present the research outcomes as a research paper, in a standard conference paper format ([NeurIPS](https://www.overleaf.com/latex/templates/neurips-2023/vstgtvjwgdng) or [ACL](https://github.com/acl-org/acl-style-files)). Students are encouraged to work in groups of no more than four members, taking into consideration that the work produced should be proportional to the number of members in a team. Groups are required to include a “contributions” section in the final project report, listing each member’s contributions in detail. Projects should include a written report accompanied by the code (in a zip file or on GitHub). In addition, groups will present their final projects during the last two class sessions. A PowerPoint or LaTex final presentation is required.

**Technology**: Piazza will be used for announcements, general questions, and discussions.

## Grading Policy
**Readings**: 60 points: Each student will be in the presenting role for 10 classes and the non-presenting role for the other 10 classes. You can earn up to 4 points each time you present (all presenting roles are considered equal). You will receive full credit if you do a thorough job of undertaking your role and present it clearly and compellingly. When you aren’t presenting, you can earn up to 2 points by completing the non-presenting assignment and by participating in the class. 

**Final Project**: 40 points divided into the following categories:
- Proposal: 5 points.
- In-class presentation: 15 points; your final presentation should be clear to the audience and provide a solid review of your work as if you were presenting at a conference. 
- Final report: 20 points:
  - Novelty: 5 points; your paper should propose something new (a new method, application, or perspective).
  - Clarity: 10 points; your paper should be readable, contain well-defined and clear motivation and contribution statements and appropriately make connections with related work. In general, your project report should follow standard machine learning conference paper formatting and style.
  - Code: 5 points; the code accompanying your project should be well-documented and your experimental results should be reproducible. Your repository should include a README file with full instructions on how to run the code. Moreover, your code should be easy to run with one simple command; if there are multiple steps involved, please make a bash script.

## Late and Missed Work
All assignments are due on the date assigned at the listed time. **No late assignments will be accepted.**

## Course Schedule
This is a tentative lecture schedule. Please check the schedule on Canvas for recent updates. The papers can be found in this [folder](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1N1_kLqjVXarVdHI8aC160IST7tOfGiFs?usp=sharing).

| Date | Topic and Papers | 
|---|---|
| 01/17 (Wed) | Introduction |  
| 01/22 (Mon) | Introduction |  
| | **Groundedness** |
| 01/24 (Wed) | Retrieval-Augmented Generation for Knowledge-Intensive NLP Tasks |  
| 01/29 (Mon) | TRUE: Re-evaluating Factual Consistency Evaluation |  
| 01/31 (Wed) | Measuring Reliability of Large Language Models through Semantic Consistency |  
| 02/05 (Mon) | RARR: Researching and Revising What Language Models Say, Using Language Models |  
| 02/07 (Wed) | Do Language Models Know When They’re Hallucinating References?  |  
| 02/12 (Mon) | SELFCHECKGPT: Zero-Resource Black-Box Hallucination Detection for Generative Large Language Models | 
| 02/14 (Wed) | The Internal State of an LLM Knows When It’s Lying | 
| | **Confidence** |
| 02/19 (Mon) | Teaching models to express their uncertainty in words | 
| 02/21 (Wed) | Reducing conversational agents’ overconfidence through linguistic calibration |  
| 02/26 (Mon) | SEMANTIC UNCERTAINTY: LINGUISTIC INVARIANCES FOR UNCERTAINTY ESTIMATION IN NATURAL LANGUAGE GENERATION |  
| 02/28 (Wed) | GENERATING WITH CONFIDENCE: UNCERTAINTY QUANTIFICATION FOR BLACK-BOX LARGE LANGUAGE MODELS |  
| 03/04 (Mon) | **Spring Break (No Class)** | 
| 03/06 (Wed) | **Spring Break (No Class)** |  
| 03/11 (Mon) | Just Ask for Calibration: Strategies for Eliciting Calibrated Confidence Scores from Language Models Fine-Tuned with Human Feedback | 
| | **Explainability** |
| 03/13 (Wed) | Axiomatic Attribution for Deep Networks |
| 03/18 (Mon) | Representer Point Selection for Explaining Deep Neural Networks  |  
| 03/20 (Wed) | The Explanation Game: Explaining Machine Learning Models Using Shapley Values | 
| 03/25 (Mon) | Estimating Training Data Influence by Tracing Gradient Descent |
| 03/27 (Wed) | Understanding Black-box Predictions via Influence Functions |  
| 04/01 (Mon) | Influence Patterns for Explaining Information Flow in BERT  |  
| 04/03 (Wed) | Studying Large Language Model Generalization with Influence Functions |  
| 04/08 (Mon) | Universal and Transferable Adversarial Attacks on Aligned Language Models | 
| | **Invited Talks** |
| 04/10 (Wed) | [Yu Meng](https://yumeng5.github.io/) (UVA) |  
| 04/15 (Mon) | [Jessica Newman](https://cltc.berkeley.edu/jessica-newman/) (UC Berkeley) | 
| 04/17 (Wed) | TBD |  
| 04/22 (Mon) | [Haohan Wang](https://haohanwang.github.io/) (UIUC) |  
| 04/24 (Wed) | [Boxin Wang](https://boxin.wang/) (Nvidia) |  
| 04/29 (Mon) | **Project Presentations** | 
| 05/01 (Wed) | **Project Presentations** |  

## Accommodation Statement
Virginia Tech welcomes students with disabilities into the University’s educational programs. The University promotes efforts to provide equal access and a culture of inclusion without altering the essential elements of coursework. If you anticipate or experience academic barriers that may be due to disability, including but not limited to ADHD, chronic or temporary medical conditions, deaf or hard of hearing, learning disability, mental health, or vision impairment, please contact the Services for Students with Disabilities (SSD) office (540-231-3788, [ssd@vt.edu](mailto:ssd@vt.edu), or visit [ssd.vt.edu](ssd.vt.edu) to an external site). If you have an SSD accommodation letter, please meet with the instructors privately during office hours as early in the semester as possible to deliver your letter and discuss your accommodations. You must give the instructors a reasonable notice to implement your accommodations, which is generally 5 business days and 10 business days for final exams.

## Academic Integrity Statement
The tenets of the Virginia Tech Graduate Honor Code will be strictly enforced in this course, and all assignments shall be subject to the stipulations of the Graduate Honor Code. Any suspected violations of the Honor Code will be promptly reported to the honor system. Honesty in your academic work will develop into professional integrity. The faculty and students of Virginia Tech will not tolerate any form of academic dishonesty. For more information on the Graduate Honor Code, please refer to the [GHS Constitution](https://graduateschool.vt.edu/academics/expectations/graduate-honor-system.html).

## Absence Policy
Regular class attendance is expected of all students. However, attendance will not be taken and will not be used in determining your final course grade in this class. 

## [VT Principles of Community Statement](https://www.inclusive.vt.edu/about/vtpoc.html)
